Join with other dataset (memory\-based)[¶](#join-with-other-dataset-memory-based "Permalink to this heading")
=============================================================================================================


This processor performs a left join with another (small) dataset. \#
Example use case


You are processing a dataset of events. The events contain a reference
to a product id. You have another dataset which contains details about
the products, and you want to retrieve the product details for each
event. \# Requirements and limitations


The ‘other’ dataset must fit in RAM. A good limit would be that it
should not be more than \~500 000 rows. If this is not the case, you
should use a recipe to join the datasets (for example, a Hive,
Python or SQL recipe).


Both the dataset being processed and the ‘other’ dataset must contain a
column containing the join key.



Behaviour details[¶](#behaviour-details "Permalink to this heading")
--------------------------------------------------------------------


The processor performs a deduplicated left join:


* If no rows in the ‘other’ dataset match, joined columns are left
empty
* If multiple rows match in the ‘other’ dataset, the ‘last’ one is
selected (but ordering is not guaranteed)




Parameters[¶](#parameters "Permalink to this heading")
------------------------------------------------------


The processor needs the following parameters:


* Column containing the join key in the current dataset (which may have
been generated by a previous step)
* Name of the dataset to join with. Note that the dataset to join with
must be in the same project.
* Column containing the join key in the joined dataset.
* Columns from the joined dataset that should be copied to the local
dataset, for the matched row.




Output[¶](#output "Permalink to this heading")
----------------------------------------------


The processor outputs selected columns from the joined dataset. For each
row of the current dataset, the columns will contain the data from the
matching row in the joined dataset.


If no row matched in the joined dataset, the output columns will be left
empty.